For training the neural network, you are provided with 3 sets of data: `obs_matrix.npy`, `pho_matrix.npy` and `sim_matrix.npy`. Each of the matrices contain 6 columns. The first column is the semi-major axis (A), second is the eccentricity (E), third is inclination (I), fourth is the average speed (N), fifth is the specific angular momentum (H) and the sixth is the number designation (which is only meaningfull for the observed objects and PHOs). For you convience, these units were all normalized to be between the values of approximately 0 and 1 so they should be ready to feed directly into a neural network with no pre-processing required. 

The observed and PHO objects were downloaded from NASA's horizon database in April 2017. Since more SSSBs have identified by then, this means that this is not a comprehensive list of all SSSBs. This also means that the number designation have changed for some of the objects since these are non-permanent designation. Because, you cannot safely use the number designation to find the objects in the Horizons database; they must first be converted to their permanent names. This can be done with the `number_name_converter.py` file whose usage is describe in its respective README.md

Since the known impactors are fictious the naming column is reserved to indicate the amount of time the objects were integrated for. e.g. a `1000` means that the object was integrated for a thousand years so it represents how the orbit of an object would look that would strike the Earth in 1,000 years time. 

For any questions regarding the data e.g. how it was normalized, how to locate the observed objects in the horizon database, how the known impactors were generated please email John at j.hefele@cosine.nl. 
